Okay so we are almost there where we can start actually making stuff in blender.
But there's a couple of things that we have to do first.
The first one is a level of detail.
So welcome to level of detail or Lord elodie as its abbreviation.
Now in this video you focus on representations of the right size and shape.
But just a block worked models.
That's very important because that allows a week iteration of your models.
Remember higher detail often requires more processing time too.
So not only do you have to input more time but there are more vertices to be calculated in a scene.
The actual rendering time later on will take longer as well.
So Lord at numbers and letters.
Well we get a lot numbers are quite a common thing and they range from the highest detail Lodz zero
or the base meche and it goes up in numbers.
Solod ZERO often refers to the highest detail model sometimes called the base model.
Now to avoid confusion with this we are going to use letters.
Okay now bear with me on this it will become clearer as we go because we are starting and being nice
and lean with low poly box models.
We don't know what the highest level of detail model we're going to create is at the moment.
So the letter aiza elodie and he represents the lowest polygon model with b c d etc. increasing in detail.
Now you do have to watch a time versus your level of detail so the level of detail and time are usually
directly proportional to one another.
The more detail contained within your model it's likely it's taking you longer to produce that model
in the first place now when fleshing out a seam and prototyping you probably want quite a few assets
and you want to do that quickly and you can test models in you and your scene when you set things up
nice and quickly that is very important.
We don't want to get bogged down creating an assets that may never be used in a scene or we don't like.
So you decided to make a bench in the church or at home if you decided to make a sofa.
Well you can test the model and make sure it fits properly.
Let's say let's take a sofa for a quick example.
If we decide to well I want a three seat sofa rather than a two seat sofa.
Well if you've already spent all that time modelling a two seats over you might be able to expand it
and work around it.
But if you put it into your scene in the first place a low poly representation of it and then decided
Well no I want the three you can do that really quickly without having binning your your asset that
you've created.
And of course binning the time that you've used to create that now lower level of detail versus the
time taken example.
Now these are only rough guidelines don't take these accurately because some models can vary significantly.
But what is important when we're talking about the polygon level here is that we are each polygon is
actually doing something.
It's not wasted.
Geometry.
So we got levels.
ABC indeed etc..
An example here of around two hundred two thousand twenty thousand and two hundred thousand polygons.
Now the time taken again this is approximately will depend on the model but you will find that you can
you can mock-up something very quickly that's our block model and is just a representation of the item
the right size and shape in around 30 minutes or so maybe less if it's a more simple one or maybe a
little more.
If it's a little more complex and from that you can start to derive more and more detail.
So a slightly more detailed one may take you a couple of hours.
Highly detailed one may take you a whole day to work.
And then finally of course we can all spend weeks on a project but we need to make sure that if we ever
go up to Certainly the level C and that we need at that level of detail you may find that you're going
to create something that sits at the back of a room that's far away from your camera angle and therefore
never needs to be that detailed.
So each polygon counts in this example and the time taken includes other art work.
That is very important because if we don't have the time included to make the other art work we're just
talking about meshes now on the basic level of detail.
It is unlikely going to have anything else but maybe a base colour.
So your model very rarely would you add textures and things like that all on at that level.
Once you go up to B.C. you're going to start to want to make normal maps diffuse maps will go into those
in much more detail later on in this section.
Okay guys so it's Challenge time.
I'd like you to list your models now.
You already have a series of assets that you want to create so we can refer to that list.
But we need to bulk it out a little more.
So what assets do you need.
That's very important because that is different from what assets do you want.
So if you were making a room the walls are a necessity a certain item in the room a small object is
something you may want in a scene to add a bit more detail to add a bit more nuance to the scene.
Now which assets will help bring life to your scene.
What's in the room that you're creating That's gone that add to make it look lived in or used.
Remember at this point we really all a break.
Complex models down into components.
This is both for easy a building and modification.
So go ahead pause of the year now and go through and think carefully about what you're going to put
into your scene.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
Well I'm going to go through my scene now that I'm creating and think about carefully what I need in
my scene what I wanted my scene.
Anything extra That's going to help bring a bit more life to the scene itself.
Whether or not I've got a few ideas in my mind of course this is the ideal time is where we want to
be nice and quick so we can model things and get the idea coming to life.
And finally I'll be having a look at what is complex and actually can be broken down into components
so it is easier to build easier to modify and in general work with.
Okay so back over to that trillo board that I was working with earlier I've removed that duplicate old
profile of a bit cheating her having Where least it was down to 10 anyway.
So I've broken my first four into what I need and what I would like to have in my scene.
So it wouldn't be a church without an altar in it.
I certainly need some blank walls.
In fact the blank wall was the wall the window the large windows and the archways et cetera can all
be classed as structural items.
So I've done a bit of colour coding here and um I'm halfway through.
This is how I'm managing my project here as such I'm using the cello and I'm using some colours so the
blank wall is actually part of a modular.
And I've got some labels here now I'm going to explain to you my thinking behind this so I don't know
actually what the end item will be but I'm taking a guess at the moment as to what level of detail I'll
be going to with these particular items.
So in this case a blank wall I'm figuring is going to be pretty low detail it's at worst it's probably
going to be a one two three four five six seven eight it's going to be a stretch.
Basically it's also part of a component modular is actually part of the building now I could build the
building as one big mesh but that would create problems further down the line if I needed to alter something.
I'm a bit stuck at least if I've made it out of components.
It's much easier it's old song about Add a component and moduli it into that.
And the same with the larger windows I'm going to make those surveys slots in with the building.
Now that I can imagine the large windows requiring a high level of detail because they are going to
be one of the perhaps one of the focal points as I'm looking down the church towards those large windows
that tend to exist at the end.
I'm probably going to want some high detail in them so they look awesome.
Otherwise I would lose out on that.
And again it's that component and modular and we can go down and we can see what's come here that the
floor tiles I may vary them from area to area archways again.
They're actually part of the building structure so lots of these things as you can see are modular and
I can put them all together.
Now unsurprisingly the things that give the scene the most life and vibrance are probably things I want
to have in the scene not necessarily need at this point.
We cannot construct this building without some fundamental building blocks.
However there are certain things I would like to add in later in things like her carpet or a rug on
the floor mats some candles of course if you making another interior you might go well I've got a desk
in the room but there's nothing on the desk perhaps I need a pot in there over it.
If you're modelling a kitchen Well you can make it look really stark but real kitchens have lots of
clutter in them and those are things that models that you probably want to have in your scene but not
necessarily need at the moment to get the general layout feel so it's important to make that distinction
at this point in time.
Now there are a couple of things that I've also thought about a long distance away so I'm thinking not
sure at the moment.
I'm only going to be wanting to look from probably the batla Church to the front or the front to the
back.
I'm not sure which way round these things are towards the altar basically looking from the doorway of
your major one long corridor like I drew earlier.
Now the altar itself is going to be low.
Detail doesn't have to be high detail because we're going nowhere near it.
So that's why it's only a medium.
And then the ceiling.
I'm not actually sure if we're ever going to see the ceiling.
So there is a case point to not modelling at all but you can put it in there's a low poly model and
that's probably as far as we're going to take it.
How did you guys get on how did you structure your scene.
Did you come out thinking well hang on a minute.
There are tons of models I want and only a few that I need.
Often I can have filled this model list up with tons and tons of other items.
But it is important to help focus on what you really need for your scene to work how a prototype is.
You don't want to be going ahead and modelling tiny items in your scene when you've not even get.
The fourth thing laid out yet so please share what you've come up with in the discussions and I will
see you guys in the next lecture.